Contributor Guidance Update/Overhaul (#4599)
dotnet/arcade: Documentation/Policy/ArcadeContributorGuidance.md

# Contributor Guidance for Arcade
Over and above the [.NET Core contributor guidelines](https://github.com/dotnet/coreclr/blob/master/Documentation/project-docs/contributing.md) (which are important), there are some principles and guidelines that are specific to Arcade as well.

> For the most part, contributions to Arcade are straight forward and relatively smooth.  However, from time to time, getting changes in can be challenging, and even frustrating.  The very nature of Arcade is that it's shared across multiple teams.  This document attempts to clarify some of the expectations as well as provide some 'advice' for success when contributing to Arcade.

Reviewer: nit: Straightforward is one word

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the most part, contributions to Arcade are straightforward and relatively smooth.  However, from time to time, getting changes in can be challenging, and even frustrating.  The very nature of Arcade is that it's shared across multiple teams.  This document attempts to clarify some of the expectations as well as provide some 'advice' for success when contributing to Arcade.
```

> ## Contribution Principles

Reviewer 2: I feel like these principles should follow a verbiage pattern, e.g. I should be able to prepend each bullet with "every contribution should." Currently, these seem to apply more to *contributors* rather than contributions. The suggestions that follow are based on modifying it accordingly.

```suggestion
## Contributor Principles
Every contributor should:
```

> * Should benefit multiple repos across .NET Core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Strive to benefit multiple repos across .NET Core
```

> * Every contributor is "heard" and taken seriously every time

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensure all other contributors are heard and taken seriously
```

Author: I like it, and I took your suggestion.

> * Keep it simple. (don't over engineer or be "clever")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Keep it simple &ndash; don't overengineer or be "clever"
```

> * Focus on value over conviction.  (of course conviction should help drive the value discussion)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Focus on value over conviction (of course, conviction should help drive the value discussion)
```

> * Opinions and beliefs must be substantiated with data and a strong business rationale.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Substantiate their opinions and beliefs with data and a strong business rationale
```

> * All discussions (arguments) [must be civil, respectful, productive, and above all - kind](https://microsoft.github.io/codeofconduct/). The focus must always be on the topic, not individuals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Keep all discussions (arguments) [must be civil, respectful, productive, and above all - kind](https://microsoft.github.io/codeofconduct/); always focus on the topic, not individuals
```

* Work in 'partnership' (shoulder to shoulder) as opposed to 'us' vs. 'them'.

## Arcade Core Team
### Expectations
- Answer questions, provide guidance, and generally be helpful and responsive.
- Pay attention.  Monitor the activity in the repo and take the appropriate action when necessary
- Triage, including old PRs (see section below for more on this) 

### Ownership
The current owner for dotnet/arcade is Mark Wilkie <mawilkie@microsoft.com>.  The current point persons are:

> - Alex Perovich <Alex.Perovich@microsoft.com>

Reviewer: maybe include git tags for these users?

Reviewer 3: Maybe also include the GitHub usernames along with the email? that way when a question comes up in an issue / PR, it's easier to just @ us

Reviewer 2: I might replacing the emails with tags instead.

Author: fixed

- Jon Fortescue <Jonathan.Fortescue@microsoft.com>
- Michael Stuckey <Michael.Stuckey@microsoft.com>
- Ricardo Arenas <riarenas@microsoft.com>

## Getting Things Fixed
### Submit a PR

> This is probably the most straight forward way.  If the PR might take some time and you want to get an early read first, filing an issue to get a discussion going, or emailing arcadewg@microsoft.com should get the insight you need.

Author: Took Jon's suggestion

> This is probably the most straight forward way.  If the PR might take some time and you want to get an early read first, filing an issue to get a discussion going, or emailing arcadewg@microsoft.com should get the insight you need.

Reviewer 4: It doesn't look like `arcadewg` is enabled to external senders. Should it be, or should this doc clarify who can send to it?

Author: Good catch.

Author: fixed

### Filing Issues in Arcade

> All issues regarding our shared infrastructure (including Arcade, darc, Maestro/dependency flow, and Helix) should be filed in the dotnet/arcade repo.  If there's a doubt, file in Arcade.  (As an aside, the private dotnet/core-eng repo is used by the engineering services team for internal facing work.)

Reviewer: nit:  epithets are typically hyphenated, i.e. "internal-facing work"

Author: fixed

> The default Arcade issue template should be used with every issue filed.  The template is *very* simple and has low overhead.

Reviewer 2: > The template is *very* simple and has low overhead.

I'd consider striking this since it's not contributor guidance. Our goal should be to make a simple and low-overhead template rather than tell contributors we have one.

Author: It's a good point, but it's new to the process so for now I think I'll err on TMI

> ### Triage and Backlog Management

Reviewer 2: I think since this is a document aimed at contributors that this should be rephrased. The intent of this section is to explain what our end of the contract for this will be.

Author: sigh...yep.  I made a note, but we should probably work on getting core-eng open.

- New Arcade issues are triaged at least once a week.  

> - Issues which have been marked via the template as blocking or causing unreasonable pain are looked at right away via FR ([First Responders](https://github.com/dotnet/core-eng/wiki/%5Bint%5D-First-Responders))

Reviewer 2: core-eng is a private repo so this won't be visible to external contributors.

Author: Sigh yes.  I made a note, and we should probably open core-eng at some point.

> - General "scrubs" happen at least once a year.

Reviewer 2: Should we specify what happens in a scrub as well as what time of year it might happen?

Author: For now I think I'm going to leave it loose.

> - General "scrubs" happen at least once a yea.r

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- General "scrubs" happen at least once a year.
```

### General guidelines used for triage (not rules, just guidelines)

> - Issues older than 90 days, not assigned to anyone, not tracking something, and that don’t belong to an epic are candidates to be closed

Reviewer 5: FWIW generally we've been using 2 months as the barometer for issue / PR inactivity.

Reviewer 2: I think that's reasonable. Let's codify it as 60 days.
```suggestion
- Issues older than 60 days, not assigned to anyone, not tracking something, and that don’t belong to an epic are candidates to be closed
```

Author: updated

> - Issues older than 90 days, not assigned to anyone, not tracking something, and that don’t belong to an epic are candidates to be closed

Reviewer 6: Do we want to use a bot for detecting/closing stale issues?

Reviewer 2: (yes!)

Reviewer 7: I'd be careful about closing such issues automatically as it might be very frustrating from the client perspective. Imagine you log an issue to some project, nobody takes care of it (for whatever reason) and then some bot closes it after 90 days. If we ever have such issues, it's rather a project management failure on our side, but they should be at least closed manually with explanation why they were't addressed.

Author: For now, let's learn and then determine if bots make sense, and if so, in what way.  I'm certainly cautious about using them.

> - Issues older than 90 days, aren’t assigned to anyone, is not tracking something, and don’t belong to an epic are candidates to be closed

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Issues older than 90 days, not assigned to anyone, not tracking something, and that don’t belong to an epic are candidates to be closed
```

> - Issues with only a title, or one liners will be considered for closure

Reviewer 5: Even one line issues can be effective at demonstrating the underlying problem. Consider phrasing around ensuring issues accurately and completely describe the problem.

Reviewer 7: I would still like to have issues with only title and no description rejected right away. Accepting such issues only enforces the bad culture of logging issues without proper description. People should optimize issues for reading, not for writing.
I agree with you that one line description might be sufficient in some cases though (e.g., pointer with URL to a more verbose description of the problem) so the phrasing should consider this.

Author: Phrased to emphasize describing the problem

> - Pull requests without a description / linked issue make it hard to understand priority or reasoning behind a change. Is this fixing an annoyance? a blocking bug?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Pull requests without a description / linked issue make it hard to understand priority or reasoning behind a change. Is this fixing an annoyance? A blocking bug?
```

- Clean ownership helps keep things moving.

### Working Group Syncs

> The wider Arcade working group (arcadewg) will meet every two weeks, or on demand.  In addition, arcadewg@microsoft can be used for general infrastructure queries.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The wider Arcade working group (arcadewg) will meet every two weeks, or on demand.  In addition, arcadewg@microsoft.com can be used for general infrastructure queries.
```

Time and again differences get worked out when these items occur.  To be sure, it's not easy and we're often tempted to think "it shouldn't be this hard".  While perhaps that's true - the reality is that sometimes it IS this hard, and there's really no easy path through.  The good news is that in Arcade, this is relatively rare.

> ## Helpful Tactics/Advice if it gets challenging

Reviewer 8: How about Approaching Differences Productively?

Author: Took Shawn's recommend
